Move metavariable-type doc to experimental (#1131)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/writing-rules/experiments/metavariable-type.md

---
slug: metavariable-type
append_help_link: true

> description: "With this rule, Semgrep matches captured metavariables with specific types"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "With this experimental field, Semgrep matches captured metavariables with specific types"
```

---

# Matching captured metavariables with specific types

The `metavariable-type` operator is used to compare metavariables against their types. It utilizes the `type` key to specify the string representation of the type expression in the target language. For example, you can use `String` for Java's String type and `string` for Go's string type. Optionally, the `language` key can be used to manually indicate the target language of the type expression.

> `metavariable-type` provides several advantages over typed metavariable. Firstly, it removes the requirement for users to memorize special syntax for defining typed metavariables in various target languages. Moreover, `metavariable-type` enables users to extract type expressions from the pattern expression and include them in other conditional filters for metavariables. This improves the readability of rules and promotes better organization of the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`metavariable-type` provides several advantages over typed metavariables. Firstly, it removes the requirement for users to memorize special syntax for defining typed metavariables in various target languages. Moreover, `metavariable-type` enables users to extract type expressions from the pattern expression and include them in other conditional filters for metavariables. This improves the readability of rules and promotes better organization of the code.
```
